A. Data Cleaning


In a single query, perform the following operations and generate a new table in the data_mart schema named clean_weekly_sales:

Step 1. Convert the week_date to a DATE format.
Step 2. Add a week_number as the second column for each week_date value, for example any value from the 1st of January to 7th of January will be 1, 8th to 14th will be 2 etc...
Step 3. Add a month_number with the calendar month for each week_date value as the 3rd column.
Step 4. Add a calendar_year column as the 4th column containing either 2018, 2019 or 2020 values.
Step 5. Add a new column called age_band after the original segment column using the following mapping on the number inside the segment value segment
age_band
1: Young Adults
2: Middle Aged
3 or 4: Retirees
Step 6. Add a new demographic column using the following mapping for the first letter in the segment values segment:
demographic
C: Couples
F: Families
Step 7. Ensure all null string values with an "unknown" string value in the original segment column as well as the new age_band and demographic columns.
Step 8. Generate a new avg_transaction column as the sales value divided by transactions rounded to 2 decimal places for each record.



B. Data Exploration

1. What day of the week is used for each week_date value?

2. How many total transactions were there for each year in the dataset?

3. What is the total sales for each region for each month?

4. What is the total count of transactions for each platform?

5. What is the percentage of sales for Retail vs Shopify for each month?

6. What is the percentage of sales by demographic for each year in the dataset?

8. Which age_band and demographic values contribute the most to Retail sales?

9. Can we use the avg_transaction column to find the average transaction size for each year for Retail vs Shopify? If not - how would you calculate it instead?

10. What is the total sales for the 4 weeks before and after 2020-06-15? What is the growth or reduction rate in actual values and percentage of sales?
 